These are Video subtiles for your context:


We try our best to protect our systems and
networks, but it's pretty likely that some
sort of incident will happen. This could be anything from
a full system compromise and data theft to someone
accidentally leaking a memo. Regardless of the nature of the incident, proper incident handling is important to
understanding what exactly happened and how it happened and
how to avoid it from happening again. The very first step of handling an
incident is detected in the first place. Hopefully, our intrusion detection systems
caught the telltale signs of an ongoing attack and alerted us to the threat, incidents can be brought to your
attention in other ways too. An employee may have noticed
something suspicious and reported it to the security team for investigation or maybe they leaked
information that ended up in the news. However you found out about the incident,
the next step is to analyze it and determine the effects and scope of damage. Was it a data leak or
information disclosure? If so, what information got out? How bad is it, where systems compromised? What systems and what level of
access did they manage to get? Is it a malware infection? What systems were infected? Some attacks are really obvious with
very clear signs of an intrusion, like a defaced web page or unusual processes
consuming all resources in the system. Others may be way more subtle and
almost impossible to detect. Like a small change to a single
system configuration file. This is why having good
monitoring in place is so important along with
understanding your baseline. Once you figure out what normal
traffic looks like on your network and what services you expect to see,
outliers will be easier to detect. This is important because every false lead
that the incident response team has to investigate means time and
resources wasted. This has the potential to allow real
intrusions to go undetected and uninvestigated longer. During detection and scoping correlating
data from different systems can reveal a much bigger picture of what's happened. It might show how
an intruder gained access. For example, you could see a connection event logged by
the firewall from a suspicious IP address. Searching for other events related to this
IP address may reveal login attempts in the authentication logs for a system. This would provide insight into where
the attacker is coming from and what they attempted to do on the network. The authentication logs would
also indicate whether or not they were able to
successfully log into an account. If so, that's let you know
what account is compromised. Once the scope of the incident is
determined, the next step is containment. You need to contain the breach to prevent
further damage for system compromises and malware infection. This is a pretty time sensitive step. You don't want the malware or attacker
to use one compromised machine to pivot to other machines inside your network. This could broaden the incident scope and
cause even more damage. Containment strategies will vary
depending on the nature of the incident. If an account was compromised,
change the password immediately. If the owner is unable to
change the password right away, then lock the account, also revoke
any long live authentication tokens. Since the attacker may
have one of those two. If it's a malware infection, can our
anti malware software quarantine or remove the infection. If not the infected machine needs to
be removed from the network as soon as possible to prevent lateral movement
around the network, to do this, you can adjust network based firewall rules to
effectively quarantine the machine. You can also move the machine
to a separate V Land used for security quarantining purposes. This would be a V-land with
strict restrictions and filtering applied to prevent further
infection of other systems and networks. It's important during this
phase that efforts are made to avoid the destruction of any logs or
forensic evidence. Attackers will usually try to cover
their tracks by modifying logs and deleting files, especially when
they suspect they've been caught. They'll take measures to make sure they
keep their access to compromised systems. This could involve installing a backdoor
or some kind of remote access malware. Another step to watch out for is creating
a new user account that they can use to authenticate with in the future with
effective logging, configurations and systems in place. These activities would
show up in audit logs. So this type of access should be detected
during an incident investigation. Then actions can be
taken to remove access. I hope I'm not scaring you
with all these scenarios, but it's better to be safe than sorry. Another part of incident analysis
is determining severity, impact and recovery ability of the incident,. Severity includes factors like what and
how many systems were compromised and how the breach affects business functions. An incident that's compromised a bunch
of machines in the network would be more severe than one where a single
web server was hacked. For example, you can imagine that
the effort required to fix a large scale compromise would negatively affect
the ability to do normal work. So the impact of an incident is also
an important issue to consider if the organization only had one web
server and it was compromised, it might be considered a much
higher severity breach. It would probably have a direct externally
visible impact on the business. Data exfiltration is the unauthorized
transfer of data from a computer. It's also a very important concern
when a security incident happens, hackers may try to steal data for
a number of reasons. They may want to steal account
information to provide access later. They may target business data to publish
online to cause financial loss or damage to the organization's reputation. In some cases, the attacker may
just want to cause damage and destruction which might involve
the leading or corrupting data. What actions have been taken will affect
the recovery ability of the incident. The recovery ability
is how complicated and time consuming the recovery
effort will be. An incident that can be recovered with
a simple restoration from backup by following documented procedures would
be considered easily recovered from. But an incident where an attacker deleted
large amounts of customer information and wrecked havoc across lots of critical
infrastructure systems would be way more difficult to recover from. It might not be possible
to recover from it at all. In some cases, depending on backup
systems and configurations, some data may be lost forever and
can't be restored. Backups won't contain any changes or new data that were made
after the last backup run.We try our best to protect our systems and
networks, but it's pretty likely that some
sort of incident will happen. This could be anything from
a full system compromise and data theft to someone
accidentally leaking a memo. Regardless of the nature of the incident, proper incident handling is important to
understanding what exactly happened and how it happened and
how to avoid it from happening again. The very first step of handling an
incident is detected in the first place. Hopefully, our intrusion detection systems
caught the telltale signs of an ongoing attack and alerted us to the threat, incidents can be brought to your
attention in other ways too. An employee may have noticed
something suspicious and reported it to the security team for investigation or maybe they leaked
information that ended up in the news. However you found out about the incident,
the next step is to analyze it and determine the effects and scope of damage. Was it a data leak or
information disclosure? If so, what information got out? How bad is it, where systems compromised? What systems and what level of
access did they manage to get? Is it a malware infection? What systems were infected? Some attacks are really obvious with
very clear signs of an intrusion, like a defaced web page or unusual processes
consuming all resources in the system. Others may be way more subtle and
almost impossible to detect. Like a small change to a single
system configuration file. This is why having good
monitoring in place is so important along with
understanding your baseline. Once you figure out what normal
traffic looks like on your network and what services you expect to see,
outliers will be easier to detect. This is important because every false lead
that the incident response team has to investigate means time and
resources wasted. This has the potential to allow real
intrusions to go undetected and uninvestigated longer. During detection and scoping correlating
data from different systems can reveal a much bigger picture of what's happened. It might show how
an intruder gained access. For example, you could see a connection event logged by
the firewall from a suspicious IP address. Searching for other events related to this
IP address may reveal login attempts in the authentication logs for a system. This would provide insight into where
the attacker is coming from and what they attempted to do on the network. The authentication logs would
also indicate whether or not they were able to
successfully log into an account. If so, that's let you know
what account is compromised. Once the scope of the incident is
determined, the next step is containment. You need to contain the breach to prevent
further damage for system compromises and malware infection. This is a pretty time sensitive step. You don't want the malware or attacker
to use one compromised machine to pivot to other machines inside your network. This could broaden the incident scope and
cause even more damage. Containment strategies will vary
depending on the nature of the incident. If an account was compromised,
change the password immediately. If the owner is unable to
change the password right away, then lock the account, also revoke
any long live authentication tokens. Since the attacker may
have one of those two. If it's a malware infection, can our
anti malware software quarantine or remove the infection. If not the infected machine needs to
be removed from the network as soon as possible to prevent lateral movement
around the network, to do this, you can adjust network based firewall rules to
effectively quarantine the machine. You can also move the machine
to a separate V Land used for security quarantining purposes. This would be a V-land with
strict restrictions and filtering applied to prevent further
infection of other systems and networks. It's important during this
phase that efforts are made to avoid the destruction of any logs or
forensic evidence. Attackers will usually try to cover
their tracks by modifying logs and deleting files, especially when
they suspect they've been caught. They'll take measures to make sure they
keep their access to compromised systems. This could involve installing a backdoor
or some kind of remote access malware. Another step to watch out for is creating
a new user account that they can use to authenticate with in the future with
effective logging, configurations and systems in place. These activities would
show up in audit logs. So this type of access should be detected
during an incident investigation. Then actions can be
taken to remove access. I hope I'm not scaring you
with all these scenarios, but it's better to be safe than sorry. Another part of incident analysis
is determining severity, impact and recovery ability of the incident,. Severity includes factors like what and
how many systems were compromised and how the breach affects business functions. An incident that's compromised a bunch
of machines in the network would be more severe than one where a single
web server was hacked. For example, you can imagine that
the effort required to fix a large scale compromise would negatively affect
the ability to do normal work. So the impact of an incident is also
an important issue to consider if the organization only had one web
server and it was compromised, it might be considered a much
higher severity breach. It would probably have a direct externally
visible impact on the business. Data exfiltration is the unauthorized
transfer of data from a computer. It's also a very important concern
when a security incident happens, hackers may try to steal data for
a number of reasons. They may want to steal account
information to provide access later. They may target business data to publish
online to cause financial loss or damage to the organization's reputation. In some cases, the attacker may
just want to cause damage and destruction which might involve
the leading or corrupting data. What actions have been taken will affect
the recovery ability of the incident. The recovery ability
is how complicated and time consuming the recovery
effort will be. An incident that can be recovered with
a simple restoration from backup by following documented procedures would
be considered easily recovered from. But an incident where an attacker deleted
large amounts of customer information and wrecked havoc across lots of critical
infrastructure systems would be way more difficult to recover from. It might not be possible
to recover from it at all. In some cases, depending on backup
systems and configurations, some data may be lost forever and
can't be restored. Backups won't contain any changes or new data that were made
after the last backup run.

When you’ve had a data breach, you may need forensic analysis to analyze the attack. This analysis usually involves extensive evidence gathering. This reading covers some considerations for protecting the integrity of your forensic evidence and avoiding complications or issues related to how you handle evidence.

Regulated data

It’s important to consider the type of data involved in an incident. Many types of data are subject to government regulations that require you to take extra care when handling it. Here are some examples you’re likely to encounter as an IT support specialist.

1. Protected Health Information: This information is regulated by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). It is personally identifiable health information that relates to:

Past, present, or future physical or mental health or condition of an individual

Administration of health care to the individual by a covered provider (for example, a hospital or doctor)

Past, present, or future payment for the provision of health care to the individual

2. Credit Card or Payment Card Industry (PCI) Information: This is information related to credit, debit, or other payment cards. PCI data is governed by the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), a global information security standard designed to prevent fraud through increased control of credit card data.

3. Personally Identifiable Information (PII): PII is a category of sensitive information associated with a person. Examples include addresses, Social Security Numbers, or similar personal ID numbers. 

4. Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) compliance: FISMA requires federal agencies and those providing services on their behalf to develop, document, and implement specific IT security programs and to store data on U.S. soil. For example, organizations like NASA, the National Institutes of Health, the Department of Veteran Affairs—and any contractors processing or storing data for them—need to comply with FISMA.

5. Export Administration Regulations (EAR) compliance: EAR is a set of U.S. government regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS). These regulations govern the export and re-export of commercial and dual-use goods, software, and technology. Dual-use goods are items that can be used both for civilian and military applications. These goods are heavily regulated because they can be classified for civilian use and then transformed for military purposes.

Digital rights management (DRM) 
Digital Rights Management (DRM) technologies can help ensure data regulations compliance. DRM technology comes in the form of either software or hardware solutions. Both options allow content creators to prevent deliberate piracy and unauthorized usage. DRM often involves using codes that prohibit content copying or limit the number of devices that can access a product. Content creators can also use DRM applications to restrict what users can do with their material. They can encrypt digital media so only someone with the decryption key can access it. This gives content creators and copyright holders a way to:

Restrict users from editing, saving, sharing, printing, or taking screenshots of content or products

Set expiration dates on media to prevent access beyond that date or limit the number of times users can access the media

Limit access to specific devices, Internet Protocol (IP) addresses, or locations, such as limiting content to people in a specific country

Organizations can use these DRM capabilities to protect sensitive data. DRM enables organizations to track who has viewed files, control access, and manage how people use the files. It also prevents files from being altered, duplicated, saved, or printed. DRM can help organizations comply with data protection regulations.

End User Licensing Agreement (EULA)
End User Licensing Agreements (EULAs) are similar to DRM in specifying certain rights and restrictions that apply to the software. You often encounter EULA statements when installing a software package, accessing a website, sharing a file, or downloading content. A EULA is usually considered a legally binding agreement between the owner of a product (e.g., a software publisher) and the product's end-user. The EULA specifies the rights and restrictions that apply to the software, and it’s usually presented to users during installation or setup of the software. You can’t complete an installation (or access, share, or download data) until you agree to the terms written in the EULA statement.

Unlike DRM restrictions, EULAs are only valid if you agree to it (i.e., you check a box or click the ‘I Agree’ button). DRM restrictions don’t require your agreement—or rely on you to keep that agreement. DRMs are built into the product they protect, making it easier for content creators to ensure users do not violate restrictions.

Chain of custody 
“Chain of custody” refers to a process that tracks evidence movement through its collection, safeguarding, and analysis lifecycle. Maintaining the chain of custody makes it difficult for someone to argue that the evidence was tampered with or mishandled. Your chain of custody documentation should answer the following questions. Documentation for these questions must be maintained and filed in a secure location for current and future reference.

Who collected the evidence? Evidence can include the afflicted or used devices, media, and associated peripherals.

How was the evidence collected, and where was it located?

Who seized and possessed the evidence?

How was the evidence stored and protected in storage? The procedures involved in storing and protecting evidence are called evidence-custodian procedures. 

Who took the evidence out of storage and why? Ongoing documentation of the names of individuals who check out evidence and why must be kept. 

When a data breach occurs, forensic analysis usually involves taking an image of the disk. This makes a virtual copy of the hard drive. The copy lets an investigator analyze the disk’s contents without modifying or altering the original files. An alteration compromises the integrity of the evidence. This kind of compromised integrity is what you want to avoid when performing forensic investigations. 

Key takeaways:
Incident handling requires careful attention and documentation during an incident investigation's analysis and response phases. 

Be familiar with what types of regulated data may be on your systems and ensure proper procedures are in place to ensure your organization’s compliance. 

DRM technologies can be beneficial for safeguarding business-critical documents or sensitive information and helping organizations comply with data protection regulations. 

When incident analysis involves the collection of forensic evidence, you must thoroughly document the chain of custody.



Once the threat has been
detected and contained, it has to be removed
or remediated. When it comes to
malware infection, this means removing the
malware from affected systems. But in some cases, this may not be possible, so the affected
systems have to be restored to a known
good configuration. This can be done by rebuilding the machine or
restoring from backup. Take care when removing
malware from systems, because some malware is
designed to be very persistent, which means it's resistant
to being removed. But before we can
start the recovery, we have to contain the incident. This might involve shutting
down affected systems to prevent further damage
or spread of an infection. On the flip side of that, affected systems may
just have network access removed to cut off any communication with
the compromised system. Again, the motivating factor here would be to
prevent the spread of any infection or to remove remote
access to the system. The containment strategy varies depending on the nature
of the affected system. Let's say a critical piece of networking infrastructure
was compromised. A quick shutdown may not work since it would impact
other business operations. On top of that, removing
networking access might trigger fail safes and
attack software or malware. Let's say a piece of
malware is designed to periodically check into a
command and control server. Severing network
communications with the infected host might cause the malware to trigger a self-destruct function in an attempt to destroy evidence. Forensic analysis may need to be done to
analyze the attack. This is especially true when it comes to a malware infection. In the case of
forensic analysis, affected machines might
be investigated very closely to determine exactly
what the attacker did. This is usually done by
taking an image of the disk, essentially making a virtual
copy of the hard drive. This lets the investigator analyze the contents of the disk without the risk of modifying or altering the original files. If that happened,
it would compromise the integrity of any
forensic evidence. Usually evidence gathering is also part of the incident
response process. This provides evidenced
to law enforcement if the organization wants to pursue legal action against
the attackers. Forensic evidence is super
useful for providing details of the attack to
the security community. It allows other security
teams to be aware of new threats and lets them
better defend themselves. It's also very important
that you get members from your legal team involved in
any incident handling plans. Because an incident can have legal implications
for the company, a lawyer should be
available to consult and advise on the legal aspects
of the investigation. It's crucial in order to avoid complications or
issues of liability. Members of the public
relations team should also get involved since these incidents can have an impact on a
company's reputation. There's another part
of the cleanup and recovery phase I
should call out. We'll need to use information
from the analysis to prevent any further
intrusions or infections. First, we determine the entry
point to figure out how the attacker got in or what vulnerability the
malware exploited. This needs to be done at the
same time as the cleanup. If you remove the malware
infection without also addressing the
underlying vulnerability, systems could become re-infected right after
you clean them up. Postmortems can be a great
way to document incidents. The learnings from
post-mortems can be used to prevent those incidents
from happening again. If a critical system
has been compromised, remediation can be
complicated because of downtime during
remediation and recovery, logs have to be audited
to determine exactly what the attacker did while they
had access to the system. They'll also tell you what
data the attacker accessed. Systems must be
scrutinized to ensure no back doors have
been installed or malware planted
on the system. Depending on the severity of
the compromise or infection, it might be necessary to rebuild the system
from the ground up. Clean up will typically
involve restoring from a backup point to a known
good configuration. Infected or corrupted
system files can be restored from
known good copies. Sometimes cleanup can be
very simple and quick. I hope that's what you
find more often than not. If a website was defaced, the attacker may
have simply uploaded their defaced HTML file and pointed the web
server at the new file. A configuration file
change and deletion of the attackers HTML file
would undo those changes. Even so, efforts
needs to be made to determine how the
attacker got access. That vulnerability should be closed to prevent
any future attacks. When all traces of the
attack have been removed and discovered and the known
vulnerabilities have been closed, you can move on
to the last step. That's when systems need
to be thoroughly tested to make sure proper
functionality has been restored. Usually, affected systems would also remain
under close watch, sometimes with additional
detailed monitoring and logging enabled. This is to watch for
any additional signs of an intrusion in case something was missed
during the cleanup. It's also possible
that the attacker will attempt to attack
the same target again. There's a very high
chance that they use the same or similar
attack methodology on other targets
in your network. It's important to incorporate the lessons you've learned from any incident into your
overall security defenses. Update firewall
rules and ACLs if an exposure was discovered in the course of
the investigation. Create new definitions
and rules for intrusion detection
systems that can watch for the signs of
the same attack again. Stay vigilant and prepared to protect your
system from attacks. Remember that at some point, some security
breach will happen, just they come and execute your plan to counter
attack the breach.

Welcome to this video that
discusses network security and explores various strategies for safeguarding
your infrastructure. After watching this video, you will be able to
define network security, list the primary objectives
of network security, summarize the importance
of network security, describe the various tools and methods for securing a network. Network security is a
protective measure, safeguarding networking
infrastructure from unauthorized access,
exploitation, or theft. It involves establishing
a robust infrastructure that ensures a secure operating
environment for devices, programs, users,
and applications. Network security mechanisms are similar to a series of
barriers around a castle, each designed to provide an extra layer of protection
against potential breaches. Perhaps there's a
moat filled with crocodiles to dissuade
would-be attackers. Then a wall surrounds
the castle with a single-locked gate and
guards at every corner. Finally, additional
guards are strategically stationed within
the castle walls if attackers breach the moat, the locked gates, and
the external guards. This multilayered
approach to security is referred to as defense in depth. Network security has
three primary objectives: block unauthorized entities from accessing network assets, identify and halt ongoing
cyberthreats and infractions, and ensure that legitimate users can access network assets
securely when required. Network security mechanisms
operate on two fronts, the external boundary and the network's
internal structure. Security measures
are implemented on the network's edge to prevent threats from getting past
the network's perimeter. However, despite
external security, there's a possibility
of intrusions. Hence, additional
safeguards are positioned internally, protecting
critical components like computers and databases. If attackers get through
the outer defenses, they face further resistance. Cybersecurity professionals
combine several tools and methods to provide
a secure network. Let's look at each
of these tools and techniques in detail. Let's start with firewalls. Firewalls serve as a hardware or software
barrier to filter out unauthorized or malicious data traffic entering
or leaving a network. They are strategically
positioned at network entry points, ensuring only authorized
communication can pass through. Firewalls vary in
sophistication, with the basic ones
scrutinizing traffic through packet filtering, which involves
examining each packet to verify its approved
source and destination. The more innovative,
next-generation firewalls incorporate intrusion
prevention systems and leverage artificial
intelligence, AI, and machine learning,
ML, technologies. Firewalls can also comprehend
and oversee applications and use threat intelligence to deliver a more fortified
line of defense. Network access control, NAC, acts as a gatekeeper
for network security. It manages user
authentication and authorization to control
network entry and activities. The authentication
process ensures that users match their
claimed identity. After authentication,
these individuals are granted specific permissions to access particular network areas. In addition to establishing
user identity, specific NAC systems undertake device risk assessments before
granting network access. This approach helps
mitigate the risks posed by non-compliant
or vulnerable devices by restricting
access for devices with outdated malware protection
or improper configuration. Let's move on to the
next security tool, intrusion detection and
prevention system, IDPS. An IDPS is situated just
beyond the firewall. It scrutinizes incoming
network traffic to identify and manage
potential security threats. IDPSs evolved from traditional intrusion
detection systems, IDSs, that detect and signal unusual
activities for analysis. However, modern
IDPSs have enhanced functionalities, allowing them to react to perceived
threats proactively. These response capabilities
include actions like halting suspicious traffic
or terminating connections. Next, a virtual private network, or VPN, is beneficial for concealing your
online identity. It encrypts your internet
traffic and obscures your IP addresses and
geographical location. You can use a VPN to reroute your internet connection
through a secured server, which then interfaces with the wider internet
on your behalf. This functionality becomes
extremely important for remote employees who need to securely connect to
enterprise systems, especially when using vulnerable
public Wi-Fi networks at cafes or airports. Next we'll discuss
network segmentation, a tactic that partitions
a network into multiple smaller
segments or subnetworks. This process strengthens
security by limiting the lateral movement
of potential attackers within the network. Here, each segment operates under unique policies
and access controls, effectively compartmentalizing
the network to isolate sensitive information
and critical systems. For example, you can
segregate a segment that handles sensitive financial data from the rest of the network, thereby narrowing exposure
points and reducing the risk of unauthorized access to this critical information. Segmentation also
enables organizations to contain and control the
spread of security breaches. By confining threats
to isolated segments, you can minimize
their impact and take remedial actions without
compromising the entire network. Let's discuss endpoint security. Endpoints include devices
such as computers, mobile devices, and servers
that connect to the network. Endpoint security
includes approaches and technologies that secure these endpoints to
protect the network. It plays a pivotal role in
organizational security, as endpoints serve as potential entry
points for attackers. Comprehensive endpoint
security solutions use antivirus
software, antimalware, and personal firewalls, among other tools to
proactively detect, prevent, and respond to threats. These security measures help
manage and monitor access, ensuring all endpoints adhere to security policies before
connecting to the network. In addition to protecting
individual devices, endpoint security maintains
network integrity by ensuring all device data exchanges
comply with security standards. Secured perimeters
have extended beyond traditional office
boundaries with the rise in remote work and the
adoption of bring your own device
or BYOD policies. Therefore, ensuring your
endpoint devices are free from malicious influences
helps networks remain resilient against external
and internal threats. Security information
and event management, or SIEM, is another protective
measure integral to enhancing network security. It aggregates and analyzes log and event data from servers, endpoints, and network devices. By centralizing data collection, SIEM systems enable
real-time visibility into an organization's
security posture, identifying abnormal
activity indicative of a security incident. Advanced SIEMs also
leverage ML and AI to automate the identification of
sophisticated threats. They connect disparate
data points to identify patterns of
malicious activity, helping detect and promptly respond to potential
security breaches. SIEM alerts allow
security analysts to address threats before they escalate into major incidents. Finally, let's discuss SOAR, which stands for
security orchestration, automation, and response. In collaboration
with SIEM systems, SOAR platforms streamline
security operations in high-volume environments. These solutions integrate various security
tools and processes, automating workflows and
incident response actions. This automation
solution empowers security teams to manage
alerts efficiently, often reducing the time
to respond to incidents. SOAR platforms also help reduce the risk
of alert fatigue, allowing cybersecurity
professionals to focus on more complex threats. Now that you've learned
about the importance of network security and various
protective measures, you can safeguard
your organization's network effectively. In this video, you learned
that network security protects networking infrastructure
from unauthorized access, exploitation, or theft. Network security has
three primary objectives: block unauthorized entities from accessing network assets, identify and halt ongoing
cyberthreats and infractions, and ensure that legitimate users can securely obtain network
assets when required. Cybersecurity professionals combine several technologies to provide a secure network:
firewalls, NACs, IDPSs, VPNs, network
segmentation, endpoint security solutions, SIEM, and SOAR.

Welcome to this video
on security controls. After watching this video, you will be able to identify different types of
security controls, describe the importance of integrating
administrative, physical, and technical controls
in safety initiatives, recognize the distinct
functions of security controls. Security controls are essential to safeguarding the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of critical assets from
potential threats. These controls actively
prevent, detect, and manage risks and
vulnerabilities in an organization. Various security controls
safeguard hardware, software, networks, and
data from potential harm. Some of these include
administrative controls, physical controls, and
technical controls. Administrative controls
established guidelines and methodologies to ensure employees
and stakeholders adhere to proper
security protocols. Simply establishing policies and procedures is not enough. Implementation of these
controls is crucial. The next is physical controls. These are measures
for securing and protecting the tangible
assets of an organization, such as the company's hardware, infrastructure, and environment. Physical controls
include a range of strategies that prevent
unauthorized access, damage, or interference with company facilities
and resources. This type of control serves as the first line of
defense in protecting an organization's
physical resources from potential breaches or
environmental hazards. Lastly, technical controls
are security measures that protect information
confidentiality, integrity, and availability. Organizations implement these
controls using hardware, software, or firmware,
automating defensive operations. Technical controls detect and respond to security incidents, mitigating vulnerabilities,
and ensuring that only authorized individuals gain access to sensitive
systems and data. Safety initiatives need to integrate a blend
of administrative, physical, and technical controls to safeguard against
threats effectively. The selection of controls depends on an organization's
assessment of risk and its chosen method of mitigating each identified risk. For example, say you want to ensure the data stored in
your data center is secure. Let's explore how
we can integrate controls across all
three categories. Using administrative
controls, we can implement a strict access policy where only authorized
personnel can use the servers. This can be complemented by
regular training programs to educate the staff
about best practices and maintaining server security. We can also implement
physical controls. Protective mechanisms like
biometric security or alarm systems would ensure that access to the server
room is restricted. Lastly, for technical controls, we could deploy firewalls and intrusion detection
systems to serve as a first line of defense
against external attacks. When a security measure
is put in place, its function is broadly specified into
different categories. Some of these include
deterrent controls, preventive controls,
detective controls, and corrective controls. Deterrent controls
discourage deviations from established security
procedures and decrease the likelihood
of intentional attacks. They facilitate informed
decision making and discourage the use
of insecure methods. Within an organization,
implementing preventive controls aims to stop security incidents
before they happen. By integrating such measures, organizations actively
obstruct unauthorized actions, ensuring preemptive strategies
address potential threats. Next, detective controls play a critical role in
identifying and signaling the presence of any improper
or unauthorized actions taking place within
an organization. These controls are essential for timely discovery and response
to breaches in security, employing an array
of instruments, methodologies, and
established practices. Finally, corrective
controls are measures implemented to repair
the consequences of a security violation. They incorporate
strategies designed to not only alleviate the
impacts of an incident, but also to prevent
its recurrence. Let's return to the scenario
where we want to secure a server room containing critical information
and systems. Assume that we want to implement physical controls using
various detective, corrective, deterrent,
and preventive functions. Detective physical controls in the server room could include CCTV surveillance
systems which monitor the area for unauthorized
access or suspicious activity. Corrective physical controls
could involve establishing lockdown protocols in case
of a security violation. Deterrent physical
controls might include clear signage indicating surveillance and
restricted access. Preventive physical
controls could include key card access systems, ensuring that only
authorized individuals with proper credentials can
enter the server room. In this video, you learned that security controls are essential for safeguarding the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of critical information and other crucial assets
from potential threats. There are various
security controls that safeguard hardware, software, networks, and
data from potential harm. These include
administrative controls, physical controls, and
technical controls. When a security measure
is implemented, its function is broadly specified into
different categories. Some of these include
deterrent controls, preventive controls,
detective controls, and corrective controls.

Welcome to this video
on system security. After watching this video, you will
be able define a computer system and its components identify various methods
and tools to maintain system security. A computer system is a comprehensive
hardware and software setup with all essential components required for
performing computing operations. It consists of a central processing unit
(CPU) for executing instructions, memory for storing data, input and
output devices for interaction, and storage for saving files and applications. These components process information and
produce the desired outcome for users and other systems. In an era of evolving threats, it is
essential to have system security for computer systems. System security protects
computer systems and their information from unauthorized
access, damage, or theft. Effective system security safeguards
systems against disruptions from minor inconveniences to catastrophic failures. IT professionals actively
implement a variety of methods and tools to maintain system security. Some of these are access controls
encryption, patching, regular backups, system-level firewalls,
and antivirus software. Let's explore these in detail. Access controls are security features that
restrict and regulate who can view or use resources in a computing system. These controls are crucial to system
security as they limit access to sensitive information to only authorized users. You can implement access controls using
a variety of methods such as permissions, user credentials, and access rights. These methods can range from simple
password-based systems to more complex mechanisms, such as two-factor
authentication, biometric verification, and virtual private networks. The next method is encryption. It protects confidentiality by
converting information into a code, obscuring the original content to anyone
except those with the key to decrypt it. It is one of the most secure ways to
ensure that data remains confidential, especially during transmission
over the internet or any other potentially insecure network. For files,
encryption tools can encode the data, making them inaccessible without
the correct encryption key. This means even if someone were to gain
unauthorized access to the encrypted files without the key,
they would be unable to read the content. In full-disk encryption, every file and
piece of data on the drive is encrypted. This is particularly useful for
protecting sensitive data. In the event that a laptop or external
drive was lost or stolen, the entire disk contents are inaccessible without
the correct password or decryption key. The third method is patching. It refers to updating software and
systems with small pieces of code, typically known as patches or updates. These patches and
updates fix vulnerabilities and bugs or enhance functionality. You can apply updates to various system
parts, including the operating system, applications, and firmware. Updates often include fixes for
security loopholes that hackers could use to gain unauthorized access or
disrupt operations. Proper patch management is essential
in cybersecurity strategies, as it strengthens the defense
against cyberthreats and is part of a proactive approach
to securing IT environments. Regular backups are another method for
maintaining system security. The method involves creating
copies of data from a system so it can be restored in case of data loss. Whether due to hardware failure,
data corruption, or a cyberattack such as ransomware. Backing up a system involves copying and archiving computer data
to restore the original in case of data loss. System backups can be conducted in
various forms, ranging from full backups which capture everything on the system,
to incremental and differential backups, which only store changes
since the last backup. This flexibility allows for tailoring
backup strategies to the needs and resources of an organization. Lets now explore a few tools. System-level firewalls, or host-based firewalls, are software that
runs on individual computers or servers. These firewalls operate by
inspecting incoming and outgoing network packets
against predefined rule sets. The rules dictate whether specific packet
types should be allowed or denied, usually based on parameters such as IP addresses,
port numbers, and the protocol used. This ensures the defense of the individual
system against unauthorized access and surveillance if a malicious actor
bypasses the perimeter defenses. Antivirus software is another
critical tool for system security, serving as the first line of defense
against viruses and malware. It scans computer systems for known
threats using a regularly updated database of virus signatures to include
the latest malware definitions. In this video, you learned that a computer
system is a comprehensive hardware and software setup with all essential
components required for performing computing operations. System security protects
computer systems and their information from unauthorized
access, damage, or theft. It professionals actively
implement a variety of methods and tools to maintain system security,
including access controls, encryption, patching, regular backups, system-level
firewalls, and antivirus software.

Welcome to this video about the significance of critical
thinking in cybersecurity. After watching this video, you will be able to
define critical thinking, explain the significance of critical thinking
in cybersecurity, analyze real-world
applications of critical thinking
in cybersecurity. Critical thinking refers to
the capacity of objectively analyzing information and
forming reason judgments. It goes beyond mere technical
knowledge and delves into the individual's analytical
and reasoning capabilities. While critical thinking is an indispensable skill
across all professions, its impact is particularly
significant in cybersecurity. This heightened importance stems from the field's
rapid evolution, characterized by complexity and a constantly changing
environment. It is also partially due to cybersecurity involving diverse stakeholders,
relentless adversaries, and a continuous influx
of new technologies. In such a dynamic domain, the ability to think
critically is paramount. It equips professionals with the skills to anticipate
the unconventional, make quick yet
informed decisions, and devise innovative strategies to counter potential threats. In the cybersecurity landscape, critical thinking can often
be the difference between a successfully
thwarted cyberattack and a colossal security breach. What does critical
thinking entail? Critical thinking
entails thoroughly evaluating sources like data, facts, observable phenomena,
and research findings. However, it is not merely an
accumulation of information, but rather an active process of systematically understanding
and evaluating it. Critical thinking goes beyond the typical approach of
passively receiving information. Instead, it demands
a proactive approach where an individual asks
questions, defines problems, examines evidence, analyzes
assumptions and biases, avoids emotional reasoning,
and tolerates ambiguity. Proficient critical thinkers are those who can draw
reasonable conclusions from a given set of information
and discriminate between valuable and
less valuable details. They then leverage
these conclusions to solve problems
or make decisions. While we have discussed the significance of
critical thinking, it's essential to note
that the advent of the digital age and
the Google it culture, can sometimes overshadow
its importance. The ease and speed of access to information often means
that our first reaction to a problem is to find a predefined solution rather than critically
analyze the situation. While this approach may
offer quick solutions, it does not necessarily
cultivate knowledge or foster the development
of analytical skills. How can we apply
critical thinking skills in cybersecurity? Let's look at a few
real-world applications. Firstly, cybersecurity
professionals can employ critical thinking
skills when reading and evaluating
information online. The fact that anyone can
publish information online implies not all content can
be considered reliable. Applying critical
thinking skills will help individuals
assess the validity of information and
the credibility of online sources before
accepting them as truth. For example, a
cybersecurity analyst could demonstrate
critical thinking by cross-referencing reported
vulnerabilities from various tech forums and security advisories before
implementing a patch. Secondly, critical thinking will empower cybersecurity
professionals to engage in fruitful
discussions. This is because
critical thinking encourages the scrutiny of
underlying presumptions, discourages emotion-
driven reasoning, and supports diverse
perspectives. For instance, if a team member mentions a cyberthreat that
they are concerned about, an individual applying
critical thinking might respond by saying, "While the initial
reports are alarming, let's critically examine the credibility
of the source and compare it with other data before deciding on
our course of action." Thirdly, critical thinkers are conscientious about
the moral aspects of digital interactions, including using
technology responsibly, honoring digital privacy, and upholding moral standards
in virtual communities. For instance, a critical
thinker will strive to create a data policy that
respects user privacy, while delivering
the personalized experience the user expects. Further, cybersecurity
is an area that is fraught with complex obstacles that require
problem-solving skills. This aspect brings us to the fourth application of
critical thinking skills. Individuals who apply
such skills are more adept at dissecting
these complex issues, designing strategic solutions, and implementing
successful mitigations. For example, in a suspected
email phishing attempt, a critical thinker scrutinizes the language and
links in the email and cross-checks them with known phishing patterns before clicking
anything suspicious. Fifthly, critical
thinking enables cybersecurity professionals to perform root cause analysis, identifying the symptoms of the security incidents and the underlying vulnerabilities
that led to them. In an industry where threat
patterns continually evolve, this skill is crucial for
developing effective, long-term security strategies rather than just quick fixes. For instance, a
cybersecurity expert will critically interpret an anomaly in network traffic as a sign of a potential
breach and act promptly, avoiding a full-scale intrusion. Sixthly, critical
thinkers tend to question existing methods and are open to integrating new technologies
and methodologies, fostering innovation
in cybersecurity. Their analytical
approach will ensure thoroughness and compliance
and auditing processes, helping organizations maintain
robust security frameworks and adhere to
complex regulations. For instance, a discerning cybersecurity professional
will question the long-term effectiveness of existing encryption methods and explore quantum computing
to enhance data security. Finally, lifelong learning is
integral to cybersecurity, especially in the face of an ever-evolving
cyberthreat landscape. Critical thinking helps
professionals readily adapt to the dynamic
nature of cybersecurity. These skills enable
them to acquire new insights and strategies
to counter emerging threats. For example,
cybersecurity experts may allocate weekly hours
to attend webinars, participate in
professional forums, or pursue industry
certifications, ensuring they remain
at the forefront of security trends and
technological advancements. To conclude, critical
thinking forms the foundation of effective
cybersecurity practices. It enables cybersecurity
professionals to make informed decisions, foster innovative solutions, and stay ahead of
evolving threats. As we move forward
in this digital era, applying critical
thinking skills in cybersecurity isn't just
recommended, it's necessary. Why? Because critical
thinking skills can empower cybersecurity
professionals to better protect the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of their
digital infrastructures by fostering
continuous learning, critical evaluation, and
ethical considerations. In this video, you learned
that critical thinking involves objectively
analyzing information and forming reasoned judgments. Critical thinking forms the bedrock of effective
cybersecurity, enabling professionals to
make informed decisions, innovate, and
anticipate threats. You can employ critical
thinking in cybersecurity to evaluate online information, engage in productive
discussions, consider ethical aspects,
navigate complex obstacles, perform root cause analysis, embrace new technologies, and
pursue lifelong learning.

Welcome to this video on the
critical thinking model. After watching this video, you will be able to explain the various elements of the
critical thinking model, describe the significance of critical thinking for
cybersecurity professionals, summarize the impacts of the
critical thinking model. In cybersecurity a comprehensive
critical thinking model comprises five key elements. Characteristics of
thought, technical skills, interpersonal skills, theoretical and
experimental knowledge, and intellectual abilities. Let's look at each
element in detail. Critical thinking
characteristics of thought are the elements that guide how an individual approaches problem-solving
and decision-making. These characteristics
include curiosity, skepticism, objectivity, and
an intent to seek the truth. Curiosity is the
eagerness to learn, explore, and understand
the world around us. It drives us to challenge
the norm and dig deeper into the intricacies of
how and why things work. This characteristic will push cybersecurity professionals
to uncover vulnerabilities, anticipate potential
threats, and discover novel insights and strategies that fortify security measures. Moving on, skepticism is
the practice of questioning the validity of the information before accepting it as factual. It involves a cautious
and analytical approach to evaluating evidence. Skepticism requires
cybersecurity professionals to closely scrutinize data, evaluate sources of information, and recognize the potential of misinformation or bias
before forming conclusions. Similarly, objectivity
is the ability to analyze issues and evidence without
the interference of personal feelings,
prejudices, or biases. This trait requires
cybersecurity professionals to approach each scenario with a clear factual
perspective rather than relying on assumptions or intuitions to make decisions. These critical
characteristics of thought empower an individual to
question assumptions, scrutinize conditions,
and objectively assess information,
fostering critical thinking. The next element,
technical skills, refers to the specific
capabilities an individual must possess to perform
particular tasks or functions within
cybersecurity. These capabilities could
include expertise encoding, knowledge of a range
of IT protocols, thorough understanding
of network architecture, familiarity with different
types of malware, and proficiency in using
specialized cybersecurity tools. These skills are crucial for cybersecurity professionals
to understand the technical facets
of a problem while devising a concrete,
practical solution. The third element of the
critical thinking model is interpersonal skills. Despite being often overlooked, these skills are vital within
the cybersecurity domain. The key competencies include
clear communication, teamwork, negotiation,
and project management. We'll look at how these interpersonal
skills are crucial for cybersecurity professionals to effectively
share information, collaborate on solutions, and
manage dynamic challenges. Communication skills
are fundamental for cybersecurity professionals
because they must often explain complex
technical issues to individuals lacking
expert domain knowledge. Whether it is discussing system vulnerabilities with
other technical teams, or conveying security risks
to non-technical stakeholders clear communication
ensures that everyone is informed and able to act on
the information promptly. Similarly, teamwork will allow cybersecurity
professionals to combine diverse expertise
and perspectives. Teams can develop strategies, respond swiftly to threats, and maintain robust security protocols
through collaboration. Teamwork will also help ensure
cybersecurity measures are comprehensive and potential vulnerabilities
are addressed. Negotiation skills are critical for cybersecurity
professionals as they often encounter conflicting objectives
and limited resources. They are frequently
required to explain the importance of security
and security investments. Hence, effective negotiation
can help with advocating for necessary security
policies and procedures while balancing organizational
and client demands. Finally, project management
skills are essential for cybersecurity
professionals in charge of implementing complex security
projects and initiatives. Effective project management
skills will help them plan, organize, and direct resources within a specified
time frame and budget. The next element, theoretical
and experimental knowledge, is the bedrock of the
critical thinking model. It refers to the theoretical
understanding of cybersecurity principles and
the practical application of these principles in
real-world situations. Theoretical knowledge
provides a foundation, whereas experimental
knowledge gained through hands-on experience ensures
the effective application of theory into practice. Finally, intellectual
abilities are the cognitive functions that enable cybersecurity
professionals to learn, understand, and apply
knowledge effectively. These abilities include memory, attention, logical reasoning,
and problem-solving skills. Memory skills are vital, as these professionals
must recall past incidents and solutions while
devising new strategies. Similarly, focused
attention is required to detect and respond to
security breaches efficiently. Additionally, logical
reasoning skills are required to analyze complex
situations and assess risk. Lastly, problem-solving
abilities will help cybersecurity
professionals promptly mitigate risks and implement robust security measures,
safeguarding digital assets. Excelling in these
intellectual skills is paramount for
assimilating information, making connections between
different pieces of data, and applying that knowledge
to solve complex problems. Thus, the critical
thinking model represents a holistic approach combining the five elements into a process for tackling
cybersecurity challenges. The model also promotes
balanced decision-making, where every facet of the
problem is analyzed and the most effective solution is identified and implemented. By fostering these skills, we can strengthen
our defenses against the ever-evolving cyber threats and ensure a safer
digital world. In this video, you learned that the critical thinking
model has five elements; characteristics of
thought, technical skills, interpersonal skills, theoretical and
experimental knowledge, intellectual abilities. Critical thinking skills empower cybersecurity professionals
to promptly detect breaches, communicate effectively,
make informed decisions, and implement robust solutions. The critical thinking
model offers a holistic approach to addressing cybersecurity
challenges.

Interview sample video:
Hi, I'm Rob. I'm Candice. Congrats on making it
through this course. Now that you've
made it this far, we're here to give you a sneak peek into
what an interview on the technical subjects covered by this course might look like. We hope this will help
you have a better idea what to expect in
your next interview. Just already keep learning
and keep practicing. In this scenario, let's say
I'm a small business owner and I only have
about 15 employees, but I expect it to grow over
the next couple of years. I had a friend who
was hacked that lost a lot of sensitive data, but I want to make sure
I understand how to prevent that happening
from my business. Walk me through some best
practices for network security. You want to list out
all the services that you'll need on a network, and then you also
want to disable all the services
that you won't use. This principle can be applied to all aspects
of your infrastructure. For example, we have a firewall, we can configure it to
allow all the services that you want and then disable all the services
that you don't want, so it will block
all that traffic. Interesting. Why do we use that philosophy or what does
that philosophy called? We'll use this because it allows for you to not have vulnerabilities
to slip through, and this is also
called whitelisting , instead of blacklisting. Why would we disable things
that I wouldn't be using? The reason why we want to restrict these services
that you won't use is because it will allow you to know what's coming in
because you know what you have allowed
instead of having some services block because it will allow more vulnerabilities
to come through. Good. What are some other
things that I might need? Another thing you might need is a network
monitoring solution. This will be helpful because
they'll allow you to identify traffic that's
coming through your network. One other thing that comes up, I worked with a lot
of contractors, and a lot of times they'll bring their own machines
onto our network. Is there anything I need
to be concerned about with them connecting to my network
with their own machines? Yes. You want to restrict
those machines just because you don't control them and you don't know
what's on them. I would say we could set
up a different segment on the network or we can have a
different wireless network. Good. Yeah, so wireless
is actually really important and I do want to
have a wireless network. How do we actually secure
the wireless network? What would be some things
that we can implement there? We can use strong
encryption like WPA2. What is WPA2? Why is that better than some of the
other encryption method? WPA2 improves the
security of a network because it has a stronger
encryption method called AES. The last thing I
wanted to ask you about was phishing attacks. I've heard that this
is a common way for hackers to get passwords
and things like that. I want to make sure that
my employees don't get hacked by a phishing attack.
How do we prevent that? You want to have your employees
use strong passwords. You can set the password
requirements to have symbols, numbers, uppercase and
lowercase letters. You want to have your
employees change their passwords a few
times throughout the year, also have them use
two-factor authentication, and you can just educate your employees just to
let them know not to open up suspicious emails or emails from senders
that they don't know. Can you explain what two
factor is real quick? Yes. Two-factor
authentication is two variations of
authentication methods, and the authentication methods
can be either a password, fingerprint, something that's
related to biometrics, or it can also be
a security chip. Great. I didn't know
that. Thanks very much. Thanks. In this scenario, we've seen how important it is
to clearly explain yourself and to articulate IT concepts and the advantages of the technologies chosen. In a technical interview, they're going to be
a lot of technical concepts that need
to be explained. It's important to keep calm and describe them
without panicking. This was our last role-play in the last course
of the program. Congratulations on making
it all the way here. We hope these roleplays
may have helped you get a better idea of what your next interview
might look like. You may want to review
all the tips we provided way back in
the first course so you're prepared and you nail your IT support
interview. Good luck.

Hello and welcome to the Google Career Certificate
focused on cybersecurity. I'm so excited that you're here! My name is Toni, and I am a Security Engineering
Manager at Google. I'll be your instructor for the first course of this
certificate program. By starting this course, you've already taken
a big step towards building new skills that will
help you in your career. Cybersecurity may seem
daunting at first, but you'd be surprised by the different backgrounds
many of us have. I worked as an intelligence
analyst before I got my first job in
the security industry, and I'm excited to be your instructor as you begin
your journey into security. The demand for
security professionals is growing at an
incredible rate. By 2030, the U.S. Bureau
of Labor Statistics expects security roles to
grow by more than 30%, which is higher than the average growth rate
for other occupations. Global access to the
internet is expanding. Every day, more people and organizations are adopting
new digital technologies. Having a diverse community of security professionals
with unique backgrounds, perspectives, and experiences is essential for protecting and
serving different markets. Working in security
has allowed me to work with people from
all around the world. Working with people who have diverse backgrounds
ensures that our teams get to ask lots of questions and come up with more
creative solutions. The main objective
in security is to protect organizations
and people. This line of work allows you to support and interact with
people across the globe. There are many openings for entry-level security analysts, and employers are
struggling to find enough candidates with
the right expertise. This program is designed to
give you the knowledge and skills you need to start or advance in the
security profession. No matter your
current skill level, by the time you finish
this certificate program, you'll be prepared to find a security-related job or
expand your career in security. You may be wondering, what do security
professionals actually do? Have you ever had to
update your password online to include a number
or a special symbol? If so, then you're
already familiar with basic security measures,
like password management. And if you've ever received
a notification from a service provider about
stolen data or a software hack, then you have
first-hand experience with the impact of
a security breach. If you've ever asked yourself how organizations
safeguard data, then you already have two important traits
that are necessary to thrive in this industry:
curiosity and excitement. Security analysts help minimize risks to organizations
and people. Analysts work to proactively
guard against incidents while continuously monitoring
systems and networks. And, if an incident does occur, they investigate and
report their findings. They are always asking questions and looking
for solutions. One of the best things
about the security industry is the many paths and career
options it exposes you to. Each option involves
a unique set of skills and responsibilities. No matter what your
background is, you'll probably find that you already have some
relevant experience. If you enjoy collaborating
with and helping others, solving puzzles, and are
motivated by challenges, then this is the career for you. For example, my background as an intelligence analyst had nothing to do with
cybersecurity. However, having strong critical thinking skills
and communication skills provided a solid foundation for my success when I decided to
pursue a career in security. If you're not sure what
direction you want to take in the security
industry, that's okay. This program will give
you an overview of many different types
of available jobs. It will also let you explore certain specialized
skill sets to help you figure out where you
want to take your career. The Google Career
Certificates are designed by industry professionals
with decades of experience here at Google. You'll have a
different expert from Google guide you through each
course in the certificate. We'll share our
knowledge in videos, provide practice opportunities
with hands-on activities, and take you through
real scenarios that you might
encounter on the job. Throughout this
program, you'll gain hands-on practice with detecting and responding to attacks, monitoring and
protecting networks, investigating incidents, and writing code
to automate tasks. The program is made up of
several courses that are designed to help you
land an entry-level job. You'll learn about topics
like: core security concepts; security domains;
network security; computing basics,
including Linux and SQL; along with understanding assets, threats, and vulnerabilities. Our goal is to help you reach your goal of joining
the security industry. You'll learn about
incident detection and response, as well as how to use programming languages,
like Python, to accomplish common
security tasks. You'll also gain valuable job search strategies
that will benefit you as you begin to find and apply for jobs in the
security profession. Completing this Google
Career Certificate will help you develop
skills and learn how to use tools to prepare you for a job in a fast-growing,
high-demand field. The certificate is designed
to prepare you for a job in 3-6 months if you work on the
certificate part-time. Once you graduate, you can connect with over 200 employers who are interested in hiring Google Career Certificate
graduates, like you. Whether you're looking
to switch jobs, start a new career, or level up your skills, this Google Career
Certificate can open doors to new
job opportunities. You don't need prior
experience or knowledge in the security field because this certificate program
will begin with the basics. I'll be by your side
throughout this first course, making sure that you're learning the foundational
knowledge needed to succeed in the field. This program is also flexible. You can complete all of the courses in this
certificate on your own terms and at
your own pace, online. We've gathered some amazing
instructors to support you on your journey, and they'd like to introduce
themselves now: Hi! My name is Ashley, and I'm a Customer
Engineering Enablement Lead for Security
Operations Sales at Google. I'll take you through
security domains, frameworks and controls, as well as common
security threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. You'll also be introduced to common tools used by
security analysts. I can't wait to get started! Hi there! My name is Chris, and I'm the Chief
Information Security Officer for Google Fiber. I'm excited to talk to you about the structure
of a network, network protocols,
common network attacks, and how to secure a network. Hi there! My name is Kim, and I'm a Technical
Program Manager at Google. I will guide you through
foundational computing skills that support the work
of a security analyst. We'll also learn about
operating systems, the Linux command line, and SQL. Hi! My name is Da'Queshia, and I'm a Security
Engineer at Google. Together we'll
explore protecting organizational assets
through a variety of security controls and develop a deeper understanding of
risks and vulnerabilities. Hi! My name is Dave, and I'm a Principal Security
Strategist at Google. In our time together,
we'll learn about detecting and responding
to security incidents. You'll also have the chance
to monitor and analyze network activity using
powerful security tools. Hello! I'm Angel, and I'm a Security
Engineer at Google. We'll explore foundational
Python programming concepts to help you automate
common security tasks. Hello! I'm Dion. I'm a Program Manager at Google. I'm your instructor for the first portion of the
final course of the program. There, we'll discuss
how to escalate incidents and communicate
with stakeholders. And my name is Emily. I'm a
Program Manager at Google. I'll guide you through
the final portion of the program and share
ways that you can engage with the
security community and prepare for your
upcoming job search. And, as you already know, I'll guide you through the
first course of this program. This is such a great time to grow your career in
the field of security. Sound exciting?
Let's get started!

There are three categories of sock audit. We have SOC one, SOC two and SOC three, SOC, one, audit test, internal controls over financial reporting. In other words, SOC one audit focuses on testing a service or organization's internal controls related to financial reporting. So two audit addresses operational risk of outsourcing to third parties. The audit test, internal controls related to five key areas, security availability, privacy, confidentiality, and process integrity. Sub two audit often contains sensitive information as a result. The report is not shared widely and when they are shared, they are typically shared under a non disclosure agreement. ND SOC three audit covers similar reporting areas as SOC two but only provides high level information. So it's not as detailed as SOC two and it is designed for public sharing besides the three categories of SOC audits which are SOC, one, SOC, two and SOC three. We also have SOC audit types. There are two types of SOC audit. Taiwan type one, audit simply describes the internal controls the service organization have in place and the auditor provides an opinion on the suitability of the controls. Actual testing is not done on the controls. Type two audit is a detailed testing of the design and operate an effectiveness of a service organization's internal controls over a period. And that's usually 12 months. The auditor provides a detailed report based on the testing results, Suwon Taiwan. This is the testing of internal controls over financial reporting and the auditor's opinion on the suitability of the internal controls at a given point in time. So type two, this is the testing of internal controls over financial reporting and the auditor's report based on the detailed testing of the design and operating effectiveness of the internal controls performed over a period typically 12 months. SOC two. Type one, this is the testing of internal controls around security availability, privacy, confidentiality, process integrity and the auditor's opinion on the suitability of the internal controls at a given point in time. Sub to type two. This is the testing of internal controls around security availability, privacy, confidentiality, process integrity and the auditor's report based on detailed testing of the design and operating effectiveness of the internal controls performed over a period typically 12 months. SOC three does not have a type.